calculated property doc and images (#876)
grouparoo/www.grouparoo.com: pages/docs/integrations/grouparoo-calculated-property.mdx

---
title: "Calculated Property"

> date: "2022-1-18"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: "2022-01-18"
```

pullQuote: "Learn how to work with the Calculated Property Plugin as a Source to generate custom transformed properties."
pageNavSelector: "h2"
---

> NPM: [@grouparoo/calculated-property](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@grouparoo/calculated-property)

Reviewer: Were these links wrong?  This `<PluginDocsLinks />` component is used across all of our Plugins.  If it's generating the incorrect links we should update it!

Author: I'll look into it, but somehow it was omitting the hyphen from the name and the links were invalid.

Author: Figured this out. It was just a matter of how the variable was declared. It works now.

GitHub: [https://github.com/grouparoo/grouparoo/tree/main/plugins/%40grouparoo/calculated-property](https://github.com/grouparoo/grouparoo/tree/main/plugins/%40grouparoo/calculated-property)

## Overview

> Grouparoo's Calculated Property Integration enables you to write a custom function to generate a new Property based upon other existing Grouparoo Record Properties. You may want to combine, aggregate, or manipulate properties from other Sources to create a new Property that suits your operational needs.

Reviewer: Nice! This does a better job explaining why someone might use this Plugin.

### Sources

<table className="docTable">
  <tablebody>
    <tr>
      <td>Source Name</td>
      <td>Description</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Calculated Property Import</td>
      <td>Import and calculate Calculated Properties from other Sources.</td>
    </tr>
  </tablebody>
</table>

## Setup

> To work with the Calculated Property Plugin, you must first install it in an existing Grouparoo project. In addition, you must have at least one other Source configured to make use of Calculated Properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To work with the Calculated Property Plugin, you must first install it in an existing Grouparoo project. In addition, you must have at least one other Source and at least one other Property configured to make use of Calculated Properties.
```

## App

To create Calculated Properties in Grouparoo, you [create an App](https://www.grouparoo.com/docs/config/apps).

### Options

Some types of Apps require information about how to connect to a service. This integration works a little differently than most and no additional options are required in order to proceed in configuring a Calculated Property as a Source.

## Calculated Property Import

> A Calculated Property must be assigned a key, which you can think of as the Property’s name. You must also choose the data type for this property from a dropdown menu and indicate whether this Property is Unique or an Array.

Reviewer: "Calculated Property Import" is the name of the Source type, but this is describing how to configure the Property itself (if I recall correctly, the Source just gets a name and then you move on).  I think if we clarify that, this will be good to go!  Definitely one of the more unique integrations we have in that way.

<ImageInBrowserFrame
  src="/images/docs/integrations/calculated-property/app/options.png"
  alt="Calculated Property App Options"
  width={733}
  height={211}

> />

Reviewer 2: Below you are showing an example of `lowerCaseName`, might want to call it that here

Author: good idea. Done.

> <br></br>

Reviewer 2: This can just be `<br />`

> In the next step, when you go on to add a Property the Key field it should describe what the value of your calculated properties will look like. A good naming convention is to consider the function you will write and describe what that function would return.

Reviewer: I think this is saying the same as what's above the image.

<br></br>

### Options

The Calculated Property Source is a specific type of Source. It performs a calculation on properties derived from another source and gives you the ability to generate custom Properties using a JavaScript function in the Property configuration.

Calculations resulting in a string property can be done using a JavaScript pattern similar to the following example for anything that would result in a string Property:

> 

Reviewer 2: We should mention somewhere that we use [mustache](https://mustache.github.io/) for these methods, and that the variables names are the keys of your other properties.

Reviewer: +1 for mentioning mustache.  I'd link to their docs too.

```js
()=>”{{{lastName}}}{{{firstName}}}”.toLowerCase()

> ```

Reviewer 2: In code examples, it's probably best to use "boring" quotes, eg: `"`

Author: changed it, thanks.

<ImageInBrowserFrame
  src="/images/docs/integrations/calculated-property/app/string-type.png"
  alt="Calculated Property String Type Example"
  width={733}
  height={214}
/>
<br></br>
<br></br>

> Calculations using integers need to be parsed as integers, so the pattern for such a calculation would be similar to the following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Calculations using other types need to be parsed.  So the pattern for such a calculation with Float types would be similar to the following example:
```

The same would apply to Dates, Floats, etc. LTV would probably be a Float type and not an Integer, too.  Maybe something like: 

```
() => { (parseFloat("{{{ LTV }}}") / parseFloat("{{{ subscriptionAge }}}")).toFixed(2) }
```
?

Calculations using other types need to be parsed. So the pattern for such a calculation with Float types would be similar to the following example:

```js

> () => parseInt("{{{purchaseCount}}}") + parseInt("{{{cartCount}}}");

Reviewer: text above says `Float types` but this code example and screenshot are using `parseInt()` instead of `parseFloat`.

<ImageInBrowserFrame
  src="/images/docs/integrations/calculated-property/app/int-type.png"
  alt="Calculated Property Integer Type Example"
  width={733}
  height={258}
/>
<br></br>
<br></br>

## Notes

We strive to keep our documentation accurate, easy to use, and up to date. If you notice that something has changed or is not addressed in the process of setting up your Grouparoo connection with Calculated Properties, please let us know by reaching out to [help@grouparoo.com](mailto:help@grouparoo.com).

> As always, if you need support using Grouparoo, reach out to community members in our [Slack channel](https://www.grouparoo.com/chat). We are always happy to help!

Reviewer 2: If this is going to be the same on every page, you can make a component for this and share it

Author: Basically, yes. I plan to make the component and go through all the docs I have updated in one pass with this.
